[Blogpost] Rails Shims (#198)
fastruby/blog: _posts/2020-10-27-rails-upgrade-shims.md

---
layout: post
title: "Shims that you might encounter during a Rails Upgrade"

> date: 2020-10-27 10:00:00

Reviewer: This will need to be updated right before you publish. Just a reminder. 😸

categories: ["rails", "upgrades"]
author: "luciano"
---

> When upgrading a Rails application, you might find that sometimes functionality is extracted from Rails and moved into a new gem. These gems are called shims, and basically allow you to keep using an old functionality, once the core API takes that out.

Reviewer 2: `These gems are called shims` is that an official terminology?

Author: It's not a commonly used term in Rails, but here you can see Heroku using it: https://blog.heroku.com/rails-5-beta-upgrade#shim-gems

Author: Just added a link to give some more context https://github.com/fastruby/blog/pull/198/commits/abbb5abd9cb9be5cc090ebec1a11aff36a52ead0

> When upgrading a Rails application, you might find that sometimes functionality is extracted from Rails and moved into a new gem. These gems are called [shims](https://medium.com/@ujjawal.dixit/what-is-a-shim-72d9ac5d8620), and basically allow you to keep using an old functionality, once the core API takes that out.

Reviewer: > and basically allow you

This sound a little off, how about these alternatives?

> and they will basically allow you to ... 
> and basically allows you ... 

Also, one note about this, shims are not only gems. Shims can also be monkeypatches that you develop to make your migration easier. 

For instance, in the Rails 4.2 -> 5.0 migration PR you might want to add a shim that defines a method like this: 

```ruby
class ActiveRecord::Migration
  def [](_)
    ActiveRecord::Migration
  end
```

That way, when you rename the superclass in all your migrations (required in Rails 5.0: https://blog.bigbinary.com/2016/03/01/migrations-are-versioned-in-rails-5.html) the migrations will work with both Rails 4.2 and 5.0 which is useful when you're dual booting. 😄

Author: Good point 👍

> In this article I will list most of the shims that happened in the past versions of Rails.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this article I will list most of the shims that happened to in the past versions of Rails.
```

> In this article I will list most of the shims that happened to in the past versions of Rails.

Reviewer: This sentence sounds like a word is missing... 

```suggestion
In this article I will list most of the shims that happened to be useful in past Rails upgrade projects.
```

<!--more-->

## Rails 5.0

### [`record_tag_helper`](https://github.com/rails/record_tag_helper) ([See changes](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/18411))

`content_tag_for` and `div_for` were removed in favor of just using `content_tag`. To continue using the older methods, add the `record_tag_helper` gem to your Gemfile.

### [`rails-controller-testing`](https://github.com/rails/rails-controller-testing) ([See changes](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/20138))

> `assigns` and `assert_template` were extracted to the `rails-controller-testing` gem.

Reviewer: Maybe follow the same wording that you use in other sections? 

```suggestion
`assigns` and `assert_template` were extracted to the `rails-controller-testing` gem. To continue using these methods, you will need this gem in your Gemfile.
```

`rails-deprecated_sanitizer` is supported only for Rails 4.2.

### [`rails-dom-testing`](https://github.com/rails/rails-dom-testing)

The `TagAssertions` module (containing methods such as `assert_tag`), was deprecated in favor of the `assert_select` methods from the `SelectorAssertions` module, which was extracted into the `rails-dom-testing` gem.

## Rails 4.1

### [`activesupport-json_encoder`](https://github.com/rails/activesupport-json_encoder)

Removed support for the `encode_json` hook used for encoding custom objects into JSON. This feature was extracted into the `activesupport-json_encoder` gem.

Deprecated `ActiveSupport.encode_big_decimal_as_string` and `ActiveSupport::JSON::Encoding::CircularReferenceError`. These features were extracted into the `activesupport-json_encoder` gem.

Changes:

- [https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/12183](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/12183)
- [https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/12785](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/12785)
- [https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/13060](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/13060)

## Rails 4.0

> ### [`protected_attributes`](https://github.com/rails/protected_attributes) ([See changes](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/7251))

Reviewer: maybe here you could mention `rails_upgrader` and our complete guide to migrate to strong params? https://www.fastruby.io/blog/rails/upgrades/strong-parameters-migration-guide.html

Author: Good idea! 👍

### [`actionpack-page_caching`](https://github.com/rails/actionpack-page_caching) ([See changes](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/7833))

### [`sprockets-rails`](https://github.com/rails/sprockets-rails) ([See changes](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/8876))

### [`activerecord-session_store`](https://github.com/rails/activerecord-session_store) ([See changes](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/7436))

### [`activerecord-deprecated_finders`](https://github.com/rails/activerecord-deprecated_finders)

### [`rails-perftest`](https://github.com/rails/rails-perftest)

### [`actionpack-xml_parser`](https://github.com/rails/actionpack-xml_parser)

## Rails 3.1

### [`rails_autolink`](https://github.com/tenderlove/rails_autolink)

`auto_link` was removed from Rails and extracted into the `rails_autolink` gem.

## Rails 3.0

### [`mail`](https://github.com/mikel/mail)

All delivery methods from Action Mailer were abstracted out to the `mail` gem.

# Resources

Official Rails Guides: [https://guides.rubyonrails.org](https://guides.rubyonrails.org)

# Conclusion

> I hope this list of gems comes handy when upgrading your Rails application. Let me know if I miss any important one.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
I hope this list of gems comes in handy when upgrading your Rails application. Let me know if I missed any important ones.
```
